source/_integrations/awair.markdown, before:

---
title: Awair
description: Instructions on how to setup Awair devices in Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Health
ha_config_flow: true
ha_release: 0.84
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ahayworth'
  - '@danielsjf'
ha_domain: awair
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The Awair integration will fetch data from your [Awair devices](https://getawair.com).

You will need to request access to the Awair API and obtain an access token from the Awair [Developer Console](https://developer.getawair.com/). It is free, but getting a token can take up to 24 hours.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Available Sensors

The integration will fetch data from each device linked to your Awair developer account. The following sensors are supported:

* Temperature
* Humidity
* Carbon dioxide
* Total volatile organic compounds
* PM2.5 density
* PM10 density
* Sound level
* Luminescence

Not all devices support all sensors; consult Awair's documentation to find out what sensors are present on your device. For first-generation Awair devices with a "dust" sensor, the integration will create identical PM2.5 and PM10 sensors (which reflects the capabilities of the sensor - it can detect dust between PM2.5 and PM10 but cannot differentiate between them).

This integration refreshes once every 5 minutes, based on the [default per-device quota](https://docs.developer.getawair.com/?version=latest#tiers--quotas) of 300 API calls per day.

Commit message:

Add information about Awair Local API

source/_integrations/awair.markdown, after:

---
title: Awair
description: Instructions on how to setup Awair devices in Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Health
ha_config_flow: true
ha_release: 0.84
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@ahayworth'
  - '@danielsjf'
ha_domain: awair
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The Awair integration will fetch data from your [Awair devices](https://getawair.com).

Awair offers two APIs:

* Local API (preferred) - Must be enabled on each device, however offers realtime polling. Not all legacy devices are supported.
* Cloud API - Offers data summarized over 5 minute intervals. All devices are supported.

## Prerequisites

### Local API

The local API must be enabled via the Awair App. Awair provides documentation on how to do this. If you add new devices to your home, you must follow these steps again.

### Cloud API

You will need to request access to the Awair API and obtain an access token from the Awair [Developer Console](https://developer.getawair.com/). It is free, but getting a token can take up to 24 hours.

This integration refreshes once every 5 minutes, based on the [default per-device quota](https://docs.developer.getawair.com/?version=latest#tiers--quotas) of 300 API calls per day.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Available Sensors

The integration will fetch data from each device. The following sensors are supported:

* Temperature
* Humidity
* Carbon dioxide
* Total volatile organic compounds
* PM2.5 density
* PM10 density
* Sound level
* Luminescence

Not all devices support all sensors; consult Awair's documentation to find out what sensors are present on your device. For first-generation Awair devices with a "dust" sensor, the integration will create identical PM2.5 and PM10 sensors (which reflects the capabilities of the sensor - it can detect dust between PM2.5 and PM10 but cannot differentiate between them).
